[Woman on speaker]
Passengers and crew
have been evacuated
for terrorism
response procedure.
All arriving
and departing flights
are in a holding pattern
or waiting on the apron.
Divert only those planes
that are expected
to run low on fuel
to other airports.
[Man]
305, calling 102.
Public Security
Section 9 has arrived.
Give them any assistance
they need.
Full authority
in this situation
has been transferred
to them.
[102]
Hey, my people
have taken casualties.
Agreement or not,
there'd better be
a damn good reason
for us to--
Keep this line clear.
There's no telling
if there's a back hack on it.
Besides, what's going down here
is way out of our league.
I've located him.
♪♪ [Women singing
in Japanese]
[Man]
From what we're told,
the initial reports
say that the suspect
willingly submitted
to questioning.
When we explained to him
that he'd be
transferred into public
security's custody,
he almost seemed
happy about it.
Happy?
Yes.
That doesn't
make sense.
So, Batou's a no-show.
I guess we aren't gonna
meet up with the big guy.
He's sticking to his,
"I only pick cases based
on my gut instinct" policy,
and passing on this one.
Ironic.
'Cause if Batou
hadn't poked his nose
where it didn't belong,
we couldn't have
pieced this case together.
Borma, Pazu, take the rookies
and come in the north gate.
We're on it.
You and I are going in
through the front.
Yes, sir.
You know something, boss?
You've changed, too.
You've outgrown
your Motoko fixation.
Nobody said
I outgrew it.
This Kagael guy is supposed
to be 100% natural, right?
Yeah.
Explain that, then.
What does it look like?
It's an unexpected
development.
So now there's a chance
that the guy's armed?
Even if he is,
it's only a 9mm.
This is just peachy.
[beeps]
Colonel Kagael,
you're surrounded.
We're with Public Security.
As you demanded,
we'll consider safe passage
for you out of the country.
Release your hostage first.
Than we can talk.
[footsteps approaching]
Colonel Kagael!
Are you listening?
Kagael!
Drop your weapon!
No one do anything.
Come on, give me the gun.
Kuza. Looks like
he's high on a reflex booster
that the military uses.
Understood.
Colonel Kagael.
[gasps]
The Puppeteer's coming!
I don't wanna die!
If you don't wanna die,
put the gun down.
Say what.
You won't make a public
spectacle out of me!
No, don't!
Shit!
Why'd he do it?
[sirens wailing
in distance]
The Puppeteer, huh?
Not a bad name at all.
♪ So, baby, rest
and close your eyes ♪
♪ And play the game
that'll make you cry ♪
♪ So, baby cries
and close your eyes ♪
♪ And play the game
that'll make you cry ♪
♪♪ [Woman singing
in Japanese]
Prime Minister,
special operatives
bearing tattoos
of "True Believer"
to signify their loyalty
to General Karam
have been committing suicide
one by one here in Japan.
And moments ago,
his oldest son Colonel Kagael
killed himself, too.
In light of these events,
do you still insist
that there's no need to
interrogate the General?
Some reports state
that Colonel Kagael's death
was the result of
a botched arrest attempt.
Let's assume for a moment
that indiscriminate
terrorist acts
are being planned
as we speak by
Siak Republic holdouts.
I find it
difficult to believe
that General Karam
could be involved
while under house arrest.
Hmm.
My enactment
of the Refugee
Naturalization Policy
met with opposition.
Please do your utmost to avoid
fueling the actions
of the opposing faction.
It was my impression
that such work
fell under the purview
of Public Security.
Understood, Prime Minister.
Ishikawa, send me the files
from Kagael's debriefing.
Coming right up.
We're moving out.
Is that wise, Sir?
I don't believe she gave you
authorization for this.
If no one finds out
that I'm the person
who opened up
Pandora's Box,
then I didn't break my word
to the Prime Minister.
[Man]
7072, has the scene
provided you
with any new
material data?
[Woman]
No, sir, I haven't
found anything yet.
Take a sweep of
the outside, too.
Batou?
Are you listening
to me, Batou?
The paperwork on this one's
gonna be a nightmare.
Yeah, I'm listening.
Just where are you?
Send these over to ballistics,
and have the lab
run a check
on the blood
and tissue samples.
We found the body
of a thirteenth
tattooed man.
Is it another suicide?
Yeah.
This place looks a lot
like our own safe houses.
It was probably
one of their hideouts.
Let the Prefectural Police
handle it.
Grab a subordinate and
go out to this location.
It's a hideout that Kagael
told us about in his debriefing.
Oh. You sure, Chief?
I mean, don't you think
a mainstream job like that
is more up
Togusa's alley?
Togusa's...coming with me
to the dungeon.
Ah, I follow you.
We're gonna be here a while.
Somebody go get takeout.
Hmm.
Question, how long has it been
since the Major resigned
from Section 9, Togusa?
I guess it's
nearly two years.
That long?
I'm sorry about
what happened with Kagael.
It's not your fault.
This is a vital matter
which might ultimately prove
to be the Prime Minister's
Achilles heel.
I suspect her intention
is to keep a lid on things
that she doesn't
want to see right now.
Still, she was scared
that the other countries
of the 6 party talks
would examine
the real motivation
behind the Refugee
Naturalization Policy.
This entire damn mess
got started
because she was coerced
into looking after Karam.
That's because even
before General Karam
chose to seek asylum
here in Japan,
he threatened
to carry out
acts of terrorism
in retaliation.
"At the moment of my death,
I will reap terror
upon the world."
You mean that
retribution declaration
in the speech he gave
when Siak fell.
Now that we've
learned about this,
the responsibility for
handling the situation
falls upon us.
It's a mystery
how the General's
been able to
issue orders from an
island that's cut off
from the rest of the world.
But if we take Karam
into custody,
maybe we can uncover
all the details
of the plan.
Also, we'll learn
how far along
his terrorist plot
is right now.
Hey, Chief.
I just heard from
the Coast Guard.
They've opened up
the airspace over
the island.
We're good to land.
Fine. Thank them for me
and take us down at once.
Make sure you doctor
the records of the flight plan.
Roger that.
No firearms
or knives detected.
Clear.
Proto, turn the power back on
and open the blinds.
Roger.
What's wrong?
Chief...
Hmm? He looks like
he pulled them out himself.
This is bad news.
If he killed himself, too,
it means that there plan
might already be in motion.
What's that?
This? It links up
to the nursing net.
Basically, it's a terminal
used to exchange
patient's data with
all medical facilities.
There were rumors
about Karam
being seriously ill
before he left the country.
Apparently, they were true.
So, even though
he was hooked up to that,
the government
doesn't know he's dead?
Hmm? Got it.
He was going through
a backdoor in the system.
I think there was more
to the good General here
than meets the eye.
Looks that way.
The com log shows that he was
in contact with his people.
We need to get this
back to HQ
for a thorough analysis.
But it definitely
appears that they were
planning a terrorist strike
using a micromachine virus.
You said were planning?
When his operatives
began offing themselves
one by one,
he went and had
a chat with Kagael.
He questioned whether
they should temporarily
abort the plan.
What do you mean?
Are you saying
that the suicides
weren't intended
to be the plots go code?
I don't know,
but what
really worries me
is that there was
a program planted in here
from the outside
designed to make it look
as if Karam was still alive.
I wouldn't be surprised
if the government
still hasn't
caught on to the fact
that this fella's long gone.
Then it's an assassination
disguised as a suicide.
Yeah, done by somebody
who doesn't want
the government to know
that Karam is dead.
That or...
So, what about
the micromachine virus?
Well, it looks like
it was sent to the hospital
of that Mashaba guy.
Assuming Batou
is not playing hooky,
he might be able to
recover it for us.
Hmm? Togusa!
What the hell is this?
Puppeteer?
Azuma, just before
Kagael died,
do you remember him
saying something
about a puppeteer?
Come to think of it,
maybe he did.
The keyword "Puppeteer"
shows up in this log, too.
It appears
to be the codename
for one of his men.
We had better apprehend
Mashaba as soon as possible.
Hmm. I want you
to make a complete
dupe of the vault.
Go meet up with Batou.
It's imperative that we
ascertain the full scope
of this plot.
What do we do
with the stiff?
Leave things
as we found them.
I hate having to do that,
but we don't have an option
since we were
never here.
Understood
The hospital.
That car sticks out
like a sore thumb around here.
Hmm.
This security system setup
kind of reminds me of...
[rumbling]
Head around the outside.
Roger.
What the hell?
You can't hack my cyber
brain when I'm in here.
Die, Puppeteer!
Must've gone down there.
It's Batou?
Huh?
Hmm.
What's that thing?
Get clear!
You dumb ass!
I'll come back for you later.
Play dead in the meantime.
Roger.
Freeze!
Major?
It's been
a long time, Batou.
So, tell me, what
brings you out here?
Damn, it is you.
I oughta ask you
the same question.
I pick and choose
the investigations
I conduct
based on my
gut feelings about them.
Heads up.
Hold on a minute.
What the hell?
Hold on to this for me,
would you?
Major!
[car alarm blaring]
Isn't that Mashaba?
You know who he is?
Do I know?
Look, what the hell
are you up to?
Thanks, I'll take that now.
Hey.
Hmm?
Your tastes have changed.
A new car?
She swiped it.
Not too shabby at all.
Batou, I'm assuming
that the reason you're here
is because you're
following up on a lead
on that string of suicides
by those tattooed men.
But let me give you
a bit of friendly advice.
Don't go anywhere near
the solid state
or you'll end up
killing yourself
the way they did.
Hmm?
I'll leave your car
where you can find it.
Didn't I tell you to take
one of your men with you?
You did,
and that's why I brought
this hunk of junk along.
Hmm.
We're too late.
Mashaba is dead.
Cause of death?
Neck trauma from
the impacts during
his rampage.
I guess we can rule
Mashaba out as the Puppeteer.
Batou, why the hell
was that thing going
after you like that?
I don't know.
And that's something
I'd like to find out.
It's possible
that he attacked you
because he thought
you were the Puppeteer.
Hey, who's
this Puppeteer guy
you keep talking about?
It all still
remains speculation
at this point.
But we have
reason to believe
it's a rebel's codename.
We also believe
this is the person
who orchestrated the deaths
of the tattooed men in Karam.
He's a super wizard
class hacker.
Here's how he works.
He hacks
people's cyber brains
and forces them
to commit suicide.
Wizard class?
Chief, we figured out
how Karam is going to
pull off his
terrorist attack.
How?
You should come and
see this for yourself.
This is the result
of Karam's handiwork.
Apparently, he was trying
to spread his virus.
Are you kidding me?
Terrorism, my ass!
No human being
could come up with
something this demented.
Section 9 is gonna
figure out my M.O.
one of these days.
Luki, Konan,
hold down the fort
while I'm gone.
Controlling two
prosthetic bodies
at the same time
is apparently my limit.
I don't see any option.
We need to start
their training again
from square one.
Oh, man.
And we even went back
to giving them natural oil.
I know. However,
the observers have
ultimately changed.
That could therefore mean
that their previous
environmental conditions
haven't been
perfectly replicated.
Hmm.
Same old Batou,
still obsessing over
these guys and
their development.
[elevator dings]
Africa was much harsher
than I imagined
it would be.
I got new prosthetics
before I left,
but still...
If you're supplementing
cardio functions
with prosthetics,
your O2 extraction rate
will take a hit.
Hey, I don't
have a choice.
Not while I work
for this outfit.
I respect that.
First Togusa, now you.
Good work.
From the roster
we found at their hideout,
We've learned that the group
consists of 16 members.
The 13 suicides,
plus Kagael, Mashaba,
and someone named Raj Poot.
Do you have any information
on this Raj Poot guy?
What's the likelihood
that he's the Puppeteer?
So far, he hasn't managed
to enter the country.
We verified
that much from their
communications log.
There aren't
a whole lot of people
who are willing to go
to the grave with you
just because
you tell them to.
Things always seem
to work out that way
when a dictator
buys the farm.
Still, 16 people
is nothing to sneeze at.
You're late again.
Huh? And when
did you get back?
Just now.
Sorry, don't let me
interrupt you.
Moving on. Next.
Regarding the missing
micromachine virus,
one gross, a total
of 144 ampoules,
was brought
into the country.
They contain
a biochem weapon,
a genetically engineered
form of small pox
with an added
time-release function.
That's one nasty little bug
they lost track of.
Batou.
I need to make sure
of something.
You're positive that
you didn't see anyone
at Mashaba's hospital?
Yeah.
Then when that robot
went berserk,
there was no sign
that a third party
had been involved?
None.
If you say so.
What, exactly,
are you implying?
Well, um...
The truth is
we weren't able
to ID the owner
of that vehicle
that got flattened
in the parking lot.
So? Maybe it was stolen.
Judging from
the security system
on the thing,
That's highly doubtful.
Plus, part of
the surveillance
camera footage
had been deleted.
I'm thinking
that we should work
under the assumption
that someone else
was there.
And you believe
that mysterious someone
was the puppeteer?
Why not?
It's early in the game,
still, and Karam's plan
hasn't gone into effect
at this stage.
But there's
plenty of evidence
to suggest that
this Puppeteer hacker
will pick up
where Karam left off.
From here on in,
we will narrow the focus
of our investigation
to tracking down
the ampoules
while we are hunting
for the Puppeteer.
Roger.
Togusa...
what do you want me to do?
First off,
go get some R&R.
You won't do anyone any good
if you're not in top form.
Gotcha. I can
handle that order.
Oh, and Batou...
This morning,
the chief said,
and I quote,
"It's about time
you reeled him in."
You can either
devote yourself full time
as an instructor,
or you can work under me
on this Puppeteer case.
I leave the choice
up to you.
What'll it be?
Do you even need to ask?
The Puppeteer job.
All right, then.
Yeah, I like those cards
a whole lot, too.
Learn anything?
Yeah, a few things.
Cut to the chase
and fill us in.
First off, I got
the medical results back
on the 16 kids
we ran checkups on,
and there were no signs
that they've been
injected with micromachines.
Although, they showed
symptoms of dehydration
and injuries from past abuse,
they were all
basically healthy.
[sighs]
but we also found out
that portions of memory
in every child
had been erased.
In addition, their IDs
had been rewritten
in order to turn them
into somebody else.
They answered accurately
when asked their
names and addresses,
but when the topic
turned to their parents,
they had absolutely
no memories whatsoever.
And when we went to check out
the addresses they gave,
they were only
elderly people
who had been
living alone for years.
Maybe those people
really are their parents.
Not likely.
We saw everything
from a woman
living by herself
in a 10x8 room
to a rich old fart
who could afford
his own nursing robots.
But what each and every
one of them had in common
was that they were
hooked up to the nursing system,
and they were all
noble rot senior citizens.
Needless to say,
there were no signs
that any children
had ever lived there.
We examined
the registry ledgers,
and "child" was listed
next to each name.
Those were undoubtedly
doctored, too.
What is this noble rot
you're talking about?
It's a reference to the fully
automatic nursing system.
It provides minimum
treatment to the elderly
who are hooked up to it.
They lie there,
languishing like grapes
infested with noble rot,
shriveling on the vine.
It was originally developed
with the intent of solving
the aging population problem,
and at the same time,
to prevent the aged from
dying alone and unnoticed.
But when NPOs learned
that it was
encouraging patients
to remain bedridden
by connecting to the net,
they started rebuking it
as a thinly disguised
asset collection process.
You know this?
I've heard all about it
from the old ladies
who come to
my pachinko place.
It's sort of like
the bare bones model
that was next
to Karam's bed.
Now, wait a minute here.
Kagael was trying to
create human bombs, right?
If that's true, why did
he go to the trouble
of erasing the kids'
memories of their parents.
If he wanted them
to remain inconspicuous
after he infected them
with the virus,
why wouldn't he
send the kids back home
after erasing the memories
of their abduction?
You're asking
the wrong guy.
You definitely
have a point there.
And if he cyberized them
just for his plan,
he's sure going to
a lot of trouble.
The operations
seem to have been done
prior to the abductions.
The transformers
seem legit, too.
Then the Ministry of
Health, Labor, and Welfare
ought to have records.
Since all of those children
are 6 years old,
a consent form signed
by a parent or guardian
is a legal requirement.
There are 144
missing ampoules.
We should check to see
if there are any
kids listed there
who fit
the same descriptions.
We've gotta make sure
we cover all the bases.
Good call.
All right,
if the 16 kids we rescued
had their cyberization
surgery done through
legitimate channels,
then the records
would have been
automatically recorded
in the databases of the MHLW
and the management ministry.
Let's assume that they
were snatched afterwards,
and their family
registries altered
to make them look like
they were the children
of those old folks.
There'd be a discrepancy
between the number of kids
listed as cyberized
in the national ID database
and that listed by the MHLW.
I follow.
All of the children claim
to have the same last name
as one of those seniors,
so it should be simple to spot.
20,000?
There's gotta
be a mistake.
If kids were being swiped
in such huge numbers,
I think somebody
would've noticed it.
Yeah, you're right.
Besides, that numbers
way larger than
anything we expected.
What now?
Let's begin by eliminating
the worst case scenario.
First, we ascertain
the names and addresses
of the excess children
in the database.
I'm on it.
I can have that for you
in a few seconds.
[alarms blaring]
It's a trap!
[Woman on speaker]
This is an emergency
class E virus detected.
Shut down all
equipment immediately.
Repeat, this is an emergency
class E virus detected.
Shut down all
equipment immediately.
[All speaking at once]
Failure to facilitate override.
It's no use.
It won't accept
any commands.
Higaki, you and Soga
lock down the backup server.
It's too late!
It's already
been compromised!
We've gotta cut
the damn power, then.
Give me a hand.
So a virus was planted
in the Management
ministry's database too.
Data's also disappearing
on their side.
Is the MHLW's data
intact?
Yeah. Hell if
I know why, though.
Move it!
Huh?
Management thinks
the database is--
[relays popping]
Well, I bet the Management
Ministry is buzzing like
a poked beehive
right about now.
Shit. We just lost
the best lead we had.
Yeah. But that's only true
if it turns out that
there really were
20,000 abductions.
Huh?
What do you mean,
exactly?
Common sense dictates that
Kagael's crew couldn't
possibly have carried out
that many kidnappings.
Even if we were
to tell ourselves
that it's the work of this
hacker, The Puppeteer,
the M.O. is
just too sloppy.
Don't you find it
the least bit strange
that this guy would leave
traces of tampering
only in the National
I.D. System?
This way, it's almost
as if he's saying to us,
"I've nabbed these kids,
now please find them."
So, for what it's worth,
I'll throw in my two cents.
I think he's got
something else
in mind entirely.
Hmm.
I have to concur
with your opinion.
Chief?
These were sent to the MHLW's
Pathogenic Microorganism
Isolation Facility.
Analysis pegged
them as a Siak-produced
micromachine virus.
This would suggest that
our intel was indeed correct.
What did the person
who delivered it look like?
There are absolutely
no records remaining
that might have offered
a clue as to who
delivered it, or when.
Is there a chance
that this person
is The Puppeteer?
It's possible.
If that's the case,
what's The Puppeteer's
ultimate goal here?
It couldn't be to keep
Karam's terrorist plot rolling.
Hmm. There's a possibility
that the Puppeteer
is a hacker, operating
under the authority
of some government agency.
What?
The way in which
Karam's death
was so deftly covered up
has been nagging at me.
As I was trying
to find some answers,
I heard rumors of
a suspicious conversation
that took place recently
between the prime minister
and the foreign affairs
ministry.
You believe the foreign
ministry used a hacker
to assassinate Karam,
because he was
such a big thorn in
the government's side?
To be perfectly blunt, yes.
In that case, we should
probably start thinking
of the kidnappings
as a decoy.
So? Which section was it
that took the job?
Well, this incident does not
amount to a serious crime.
Nevertheless, if we take
into consideration
the results that it's achieved,
the government and we
are on the same page.
For now, the best advice
I can offer
is that we should
let sleeping dogs lie
and avoid making
the situation even worse.
Hmm?
What?
You are to identify
the 16 children
as soon as possible,
but you finish there.
I'm temporarily taking you
off the investigation.
[gasps]
That's all, men.
Oh, man. all that work
for nothing,
and now we've got to tie up
an assload of loose ends.
Well, the least we can do
is jump on the task at hand,
and track down
the parents of those kids.
Sorry I'm late.
I'm on my way there.
[alarm chirping]
Hmm.
Huh?
Need to ask you something.
What is it?
Who made you pull us
off this case?
Was it the Treaty Review
Department?
You mean that. I cut
a deal with Nakamura.
In exchange for turning
a blind eye
to their work, we were
allowed to take possession
of the micromachine virus.
And you're okay with that?
If removing Karam from
the picture was so vital
to national interests,
I would think you'd be
offended that they didn't
ask us to do it.
Otherwise, what was the point
of expanding Section 9
these past two years?
She's not going to come back.
Not when we're like this.
So what do we do,
wallow in regret
for not receiving
such an order,
or do we rejoice?
The answer to that
will determine what path
we walk in the future.
I completely understand
the point you're trying
to make, Batou.
But we must also consider
the possibility
that the Major will
never return to Section 9.
Her talents were
more rare than E.S.P.
Unfortunate though it may be,
no one but her
can fill her shoes.
[sighs]
In reality being
what it is,
I won't be able
to stay here forever.
So, under the
circumstances,
shouldn't we create
a new organization?
A unit that can tackle not
just one investigation,
but three at a time,
while using only 80%
of its resources.
Don't you think that's
the best way to carry on
our ideals after we're gone.
That's what I hoped
for as I worked
to expand our current
organization.
Making Togusa the squad
commander was part
of that plan,
but, if you had accepted the
position instead of him,
then things might have
worked out differently.
Old man, I ain't cut out
for a job like that.
If you subjectively believe
that to be the case,
you might be correct then.
With Togusa it's different.
Before a person's
talents can blossom,
one has to overcome
a whole slew of obstacles.
He needs support and I
want you to give it to him.
Are you sure about that?
'Cause I think Togusa's
doing a bang-up
job personally.
I know the Major would
say that he's preventing
his feelings from
interfering in his work.
It sounds like he
even told his family
about his new job and
the prosthetics he got,
but I doubt he
had an easy time
trying to win their
understanding.
That's something that
I was never able to do
to the very end.
I'm glad we were able
to talk like this again.
[door closes]
[footsteps fading]
[helicopter hovering]
[Togusa]
I can't make it home
again tonight.
It can't be helped.
You're in a position
of responsibility now.
[Togusa]
Yeah.
So, have the kids
been behaving.
Yes.
In fact, our little
queen declared last week
that she'd be
sleeping by herself
in her own room
without her brother.
[Woman]
They don't fight now,
so it's quiet around here.
Her own bed?
She's growing up too fast.
[Woman]
I know.
It's hard
to believe she's six.
[Togusa]
Wow. Six already.
[elevator dings]
[Togusa]
Send me a picture
of her sleeping, okay?
[Woman]
Sure. Will do.
[Man on P.A.]
Togusa, we have
an emergency.
Get to flat 47
right away!
What happened?
I'm sorry, sir.
They're all--
The children are--
By the time we learned what
was up, they were gone.
It's like with Kagael.
[Man]
Sure looks that way.
The Puppeteer.
If you wanted Proto dead,
he would have made him
pull the trigger a while ago.
He's buying time.
[alarm buzzing]
Shit!
Borma, Ishikawa,
use the I.R. system
to locate those kids ASAP!
But we can barely keep
the damn lights on.
Ask the local police
for assistance.
Get Proto to the
analysis room.
Togusa!
We need to talk!
It'll have to wait.
Finding those kids is
a little more important.
This is just
as important!
I think I know who
the Puppeteer is.
[Man]
It's Aramaki.
Oh, pardon me.
What kept you?
Sorry, things are
hectic at work.
And you, sir, how are you
feeling, Colonel Tonoda?
[gasping]
Hmm, the Colonel's hobbies
haven't changed at all,
have they?
[Man]
Don't be so hard on him.
All his health problems
are due to the stress
of prison life.
Where the hell
is Sujisaki?
That ingrate hasn't come
to see me even once.
He forgets the debt
he owes to the man
who looked out for him
more than anyone else.
[retching]
His memories
are a bit jumbled.
Let's step out.
I have something
I want to give you.
There's nothing left
now of the man
once known as
Colonel Red Demon.
You should seriously
think about remarrying.
There's no sorrier sight
than a single old man.
I decided long ago that
I would never own anything
that I couldn't take
to the grave with me.
As steely-eyed and
resolute as ever, I see.
So, what was it that
you wanted to give to me?
Oh, right.
This is it.
The truth is, when I was
at Mashaba's hospital
I ran into the Major.
You ran into her?
You mean that--
At first, I never would
have believed it possible.
But then I gradually became
more and more convinced
that she had to
be the Puppeteer.
I missed an opportunity
to bring it up earlier.
Then did you witness
the Major kill Mashaba?
No.
But I did see her walk
off with the ampoules.
Before I used to always
butt in whenever it seemed
like the Major might be
involved in a specific case,
but back then, I always
believed that she
was helping us
to solve the case
in her own fashion.
This time it's different.
It simply doesn't add up.
What the hell's
the Major trying to do?
Damn if I know.
But one thing is certain.
The Treaty Review Department
set up the hit on Karam.
The Major
is probably there.
[Male voice]
Batou, I want
you and Saito
to head over to Beltway
number 16 immediately.
This is an urgent matter.
It has top priority.
Chief, we have a situation
on our own hands here.
The Puppeteer has struck
at Section 9 also.
He did what?
Old man,
I hate to say it,
but I think the Pup--
Keep it between us
until I can verify it.
Chief, now that
he's made a move,
does that mean the
investigation is open again?
I suppose so.
Understood.
Now, what's happened
on your end?
About two hours ago, security
cameras in Coastal District 2
happened to catch sight
of an internationally
wanted criminal.
Huh?
Who is this guy?
He must be one tough customer
if you want Saito and me on him.
[Male voice]
He's a super class A sniper.
Formally of the
Siak Republic.
Lieutenant Raj Poot.
[Man]
Raj Poot.
Wait, that was one
of the names from--
[beeps]
Hmm?
The one member who hadn't
come into the country.
He was the commander
of Karam's personal guard.
The way I heard it,
he sought asylum
in China after Siak fell.
Considering the timing of his
entry into the country,
there must be
something to this.
[Man]
Right. Fortunately the
Intelligence Bureau
has a fix on his
current position.
I want the two
of you to tail him,
find out what
his objective is.
Roger.
Togusa, if it turns out
the Major is the Puppeteer,
then we have
to take her on.
Yeah, I know.
I don't want to think
about it either.
Somehow or someday I will
repay this favor, my friend.
Mmm.
Well, Tonoda, I'm afraid
I can't stay any longer.
They say that children
take after their parents
and robots take
after humans,
but you didn't turn
out anything like me.
I'm pleased that a fool like
me made a genius like you.
Try to look after
your health, all right?
Thank you,
I will, sir.
Take care of yourself,
too, Colonel.
♪♪ [electronica]
[Batou]
What's his M.O. gonna
be for his sniping?
[Saito]
The same as mine.
He'll use his hawkeye to
establish a satellite link
and then take his shot.
[Batou]
Which means it's
only a matter of time
before we lose the ability
to track him by GPS.
Right.
We have to catch
him before then.
Let me take over.
I'm gonna get a good
look at his face.
Don't let him spot you.
I have confirmation,
no doubt about it.
This is our guy.
Hmm.
[engine starting]
Togusa, good news.
The I.R. system just
picked up one of the kids.
Really?
What's his location?
He's walking
through the grounds
of the Kuhuko Public
Housing Projects.
Hey, that's close
to where I live.
Okay, I'll go
check it out.
I'll put in a call
to the PPD.
I guess it's back
to investigating
all those kidnapping
cases for us.
Looks that way.
Damn it.
We'll have to put the
Major on the back burner.
[elevator dings]
[beeps]
[door opening]
[door closing]
The Puppeteer,
I presume.
It's certainly
a fitting name.
I had an inquiry a moment ago
from Public Security Section 9,
asking if I knew a hacker
called the Puppeteer?
My answer was, "Sorry,
I don't have any clue."
So, what do you want
to talk to me about?
I came here to refund
your payment.
As far
as we're concerned,
if the assignments you've
been given are carried out,
we really don't
care what you do.
I'm sorry, but you
won't see me again.
I'll leave a net
channel open for you
to contact us
in that case.
Feel free to-- hmm?
That's a puppet as well?
What a waste.
She was so
talented too.
♪♪ [electronica]
The sun's
about to come up.
Still, why do you think he
decided to come here now?
You don't think it's to carry
out Karam's revenge, do you?
Karam's revenge?
Possibly.
Makes sense, but how
could anyone have
gotten that intel?
We were even left out
of the loop about
that little tidbit.
Good point.
How much longer is he going
to keep driving around.
Come to think of it,
there's that same
building again.
Hmm?
Hey, wait.
Isn't that the--
Togusa, the kid just went into
Building N25, apartment 602.
Can you find it?
Yeah, I know this neighborhood
like the back of my hand.
[door closing]
[rattling]
[flies buzzing]
A noble rot senior citizen.
[moaning]
Bring him back!
Everything I have
in this world
is invested in that boy.
I'd will it to some stranger
off the damn street
sooner than I'd let the
government get a hold of it.
Besides, the boy would
have died of mistreatment
if I hadn't taken him in.
[flies buzzing]
That's the will
of the people,
of those who live
in the Solid State.
It's our little gain.
No, it's much
more than that.
It's our economic action.
If you don't want to end
up killing yourself
like the others,
then keep your nose
out of our society.
Consider yourself warned.
[exhales]
[EKG flatlines]
I'm definitely
getting the feeling
that a sniping
target is in there.
Yeah.
[no audible dialogue]
[turn signal clicking]
Turn off his cyber brain and
assign a guard to him, okay?
Right away, sir.
[Woman]
Cardiac arrest confirmed.
Requesting disposal of remains
and retrieval of nursing system.
Disposal?
That's strange.
Didn't he have
family somewhere?
There's a six-year-old
kid listed in his file.
Data error maybe?
I shouldn't complain.
That's one less
job that I have to do.
Data error?
No.
He's missing
because I rescued him,
which means
if I hadn't come here
it would have made
no difference.
They would have taken that
boy into custody anyways
as part of their
standard procedure.
Special operatives
committing suicide.
Children who vanish.
Noble rot senior citizens.
The will of the people,
of those who live
in the Solid State.
Hang on.
In the first place,
what does Solid State mean?
What was that old
man talking about?
[phone ringing]
Hi, hon,
what is it?
[Woman]
Oh thank goodness
I finally got through,
I've been trying
to reach you.
You've got to come
home right away.
Our little girl
is missing!
[Man]
That clinches it.
Let's go after him.
Hold on.
Shit, he's got
optical camouflage?
What the hell is going on?
Her GPS is turned off.
It's the Puppeteer?
It can't be.
She doesn't have any
cyber-implants yet.
I need you to pinpoint
which satellite he's using.
Now that we've
lost his trail,
we won't find him until
he starts to shoot.
The instant he does
is going to be our first
and last chance to get him.
I could probably locate
that satellite for you,
but how will you
actually spot the guy?
He should be
in this zone.
He'll know where we are,
but we'll be able to spot
his position from up here.
Wear this.
You're way too easy
to see in that.
There's no time.
If we could beat
him to the punch,
I can take him.
Let's do it.
Bingo.
Patch me in.
This guy's the target?
I've got a back
trace on his position.
SE37.
There he is.
Send my data back at him.
[beeping]
Someone's lining
up a shot.
[gun cocking]
Saito!
Did I nail him?
Lay low.
I'll go check.
Damn it, hurry up!
[elevator dings]
Huh?
Daddy?
Well?
Have a little faith in
your skills why don't you?
That's a relief.
Now then.
You want to start by
telling me who that guy
was you were gunning for,
and why you were
trying to kill him?
It was to avenge
the general's death.
I'm going to kill
every last one
of you lousy Japs for him.
Out of revenge, huh?
Don't give me
that load of crap.
Where'd you get your hands
on that piece of intel?
It was a tip that I got
from a double agent.
He said he'd tell me
who masterminded the
general's death,
so I had to go
take out the target.
Who is this double agent,
give me his name.
He spends a lot of time
at the Foreign Ministry.
An assemblyman named Munei.
Old man, I need you to
collar an assemblyman
by the name
of Munei, ASAP.
Here's a picture of the guy
that Raj was trying to kill.
Looks like he's the brains
behind the hit on Karam.
Hmm?
If I'm not mistaken,
this photo is of the
assemblyman Hitoshi Munei.
What are you trying to pull?
You know that target you
were just trying to whack?
He's the same guy
who fed you your intel.
Explain that to me.
That's his problem.
Maybe the bastard wants to
commit suicide or something.
Commit suicide?
All right.
I've had enough of this.
Are you sure the Puppeteer
isn't pulling your
strings too, bucko!
Well, shit,
could be.
If that thing was human I'd a
killed her right off the bat.
If it got to me I'm
gonna be so pissed off.
Are you saying the
Puppeteer is inhuman?
It's the name of the
mechanism that's built
into the Solid State
and designed
for abducting kids.
Huh? What the
hell do you mean?
Hey, listen, what
is the Solid State?
You really don't know?
It's the nursing net,
that's what.
The government of this great
democratic country of yours
goes around
stealing children.
It's too damn funny.
[coughing]
Old man, I need a paramedic
team and a chopper over here.
Do some digging into the
background of this Munei guy.
There's something
dicey going on.
[Male voice]
Understood.
So anyway, I found her
right after I called you.
Apparently she's been with the
neighbors since this morning.
Mm-hmm.
I see.
I'm just happy
it was a false alarm.
Never leave the house
without telling Mommy.
Okay.
Come on, I'll drop
you off at school.
I'll have to go right
back to work after that.
Are you sure
you have to go?
You look exhausted.
I feel better just
seeing you two.
Really.
Well, if you say so.
Bye, Mommy!
[door opening]
[door closing]
[engine starting]
Huh?
What is it?
[giggling]
Nothing, Daddy.
Hmm.
[Male voice]
Togusa.
Huh?
We have Raj Poot
in custody.
It looks like the Puppeteer
was involved in this one too.
Which means that
the Major is--
[Male voice]
Yeah.
But the way this is going,
the Major
might not be the
Puppeteer after all.
Raj Poot claims that the
Puppeteer is the name
of an abduction mechanism
that's built into the
nursing system.
An abduction mechanism?
That's right.
Not only that, but he
referred to the nursing net
as the Solid State
and implied that the
government is somehow involved.
I should have
mentioned this before.
But when I ran
into the Major,
she told me to stay away
from the Solid State.
At first I thought she was
talking about cyber implants,
but I think what she was
really trying to tell me
was to stay away from her.
Or maybe she was giving
me a heads up to avoid
the nursing net.
I'm guessing that Karam and
his group found the mechanism,
tried to exploit
it for their plot,
and got themselves purged.
That makes sense.
[phone ringing]
Huh?
It's for Mommy.
Give me a minute.
Hi, honey.
[Man]
You ignored
our warning.
Hey.
That mistake will cost
you your precise daughter.
[electronic interference]
Togusa, what's
happening with you?
Ishikawa, can you give me
Togusa's current location?
Hmm? I'll try
to track him down.
Why? What's up?
His cyber brain's
being hacked.
Daddy.
This isn't the
way to school.
Shit.
So you're the
Puppeteer, huh?
What's your plan?
How do the missing
kids fit into it?
Where did those 20,000
children disappear to?
We are doing nothing more
than recycling ghosts
that have been foolishly
allowed to go to waste.
I am about to let you
experience for yourself
exactly what some
of them went through.
Batou, I have a fix
on Togusa's location.
He's at the cyber brain
surgical hospital over
in Kohokoni town.
Now I get it.
The kids are taken
to the hospital
by their own parents
for cyberization.
The doctors perform the surgery
without suspecting a thing.
You then override
a child's memory.
The parent drops off the
kid with a senior citizen
and the abduction
is complete.
After this, you're
going to wipe my memory
and my own daughter will
vanish like the others.
You shouldn't feel
regret about your
memories being altered.
In modern society,
memories are constantly
modified
on a subconscious level.
The probability
of such modifications
already exceeds that of being
in a traffic accident.
Am I being given
a choose then?
There it is.
I won't let you people
take my daughter.
Never.
Listen, sweetheart,
I need you to do something
very important for Daddy.
When Daddy let's
go of your hand,
you run away
as fast as you can.
Run away?
That's right.
You'll hear a loud bang,
just like the field
games at school.
When you hear that sound,
run with all your might.
After you start running,
don't stop for anything.
Whatever you do,
do not look back.
Can you do it?
Mm-hmm.
Good girl.
Now close your eyes.
I'm sorry.
This is goodbye,
my angel.
Huh?
Togusa!
I love you.
Max, Wasashi.
Now don't you worry.
It's okay.
Major?
I had to wait until the
last possible second.
Sorry about that.
Then I guess this means that
you aren't the Puppeteer.
Where have you been?
Daddy.
I've kept busy
since Section 9.
I've been wandering the net,
covertly solving crimes
that can't be handled
with standard
organization-based
methodology.
In the course
of doing that,
[Major]
I came across these
abduction cases
and I've been conducting
my own investigation.
I can't believe that you
would use Togusa as bait.
Didn't you stop to think
that it might put his
family in their crosshairs?
There were
safeguards in place,
I made sure of it.
Thanks to those, we should
be able to learn now who the
Puppeteer really is.
Hmm?
Isn't Puppeteer the
name of a system
that's operating
on the nursing net?
Instead of a system, it would
be more accurate to call
it a gestalt,
those hooked up
to the nursing net,
meaning all those
senior citizens.
But there's a hub cyber
brain running independently
that manages
the entire thing.
Hub cyber brain?
Hey, are those
what I think they are?
[Major]
I constructed them out of data
I found drifting in the net.
Hi, Miss Kuboto,
long time no see.
It's nice to see that
you're doing well.
A back door was installed
in the nursing net
that's been there ever
since the design stage.
Look.
This is the full view
of the rhizome
that's been woven by those
elderly people's gestalt.
A Rhizome doesn't contain
the concept of a center.
Therefore the hub's cyber
brain is constantly in motion.
That, or the
Rhizome itself
might be acting
as a hub.
Now that I know
what's going on,
I gotta find out who
or what this hub is.
Max, Wasashi,
report your findings.
What's the problem?
Well,
you see, um--
I don't know how to
break this to you, Major.
You failed?
But we did succeed
in pinpointing it's
location though.
Okay, where
is it then?
It's at the Sacred Citizen
Relief Center Building.
That's where the heart of
the nursing net is located.
They've arrived.
Disengaging locks.
[locks disengaging]
[door opening]
It's been a long
time, Major.
I suppose it has.
Too bad we have to reunite
under these circumstances.
Why?
Why did you come back?
That can wait.
There's no time now.
At the moment, our priority
is to catch the Puppeteer.
Hitoshi Munei,
assemblyman
in the lower house.
The reason why he was marked
for death is our sole lead
in uncovering the true
identity of the Puppeteer.
This man Munei
is a reactionary
conservative nationalist
who's always
been a proponent
of the formation
of a ruling class.
One comprised of
pure blooded Japanese.
He's always in contact
with the Foreign Ministry,
and he has ties to
the Treaty Review Department.
He was also involved
in Karam's murder.
What are you saying, Major?
I contracted out to
the Treaty Review Department
so that I could
make it look as if Karam
had been assassinated,
but before I could do it,
the Puppeteer got to him.
Then you were
only responsible
for covering up his death
after the fact.
Yes, more or less.
Hmm.
We've also learned
that Hitoshi Munei
has secured
a leadership position
in the day to day operations
of the Sacred Citizen
Relief Center.
[Batou]
What's in it for him?
The place is just
a service organization
that provides healthcare
and vocational training
for old folks.
True. However,
thanks to the patronage
of certain politicians,
and it's public image
as a non-profit foundation,
the Center acts in reality
as a training facility
servicing the power elite.
It's a veritable
brainwashing factory.
That has to be
what Raj Poot meant
when he implied
that the government
had a part in it.
If this place is
being used as a temporary
central cleaning house
for those children
who were abducted,
then what the Puppeteer
is having trouble dealing with
is the fact
that Munei is using it
as a brainwashing factory.
Chief, why don't
we go search the place?
Our top priority here
is to find those
missing children.
Yeah, but raiding the place
will cause a scandal.
And if that happens,
that scumbag of a politician
ain't the only one who's
gonna catch heat for it.
Ishikawa, how's it coming?
Is that you, Major?
Heh. You picked
a hell of a time
to rejoin the fold.
I found evidence of
a massive amount
of equipment
being brought in
that was based off of
the HC-25
brainwashing machine.
But that's
pretty flimsy proof
to justify a raid.
What about from the inside?
I only found footage from
their manual labor wing.
The defense barrier
protecting the education wing
is a complex
virtual experience maze.
I had no luck at all
sneaking in.
Just looks like refugees.
Then the children were being
held in the education wing,
which means that
the abduction mechanism
had to be built
into the place during
its planning stages.
If it weren't,
I'd find it hard to believe
that a rank
and file politician
would have the balls
to propose such
an audacious policy.
Then do you suspect that
when they laid the groundwork
for the project
that the Puppeteer was also
among those involved?
Ishikawa, use decoys
to make it look
as if hackers are
trying to dive the place.
I'm going in.
Even if it fails,
it'll give you guys
some cover.
If you and Togusa
are still around,
Section 9 can carry on.
Batou, I don't want to hear
that kind of talk, all right?
Oh, so you're the one
who's gonna retire this time?
I appreciate
your consideration,
but the only reason
I came here is to
ID the Puppeteer,
nothing more.
It's true you'll
always need someone
who'll get their hands
dirty for you.
And, besides, I don't have
anything to lose right now.
Chief, no offense,
but I'm going there by myself.
The Puppeteer is waiting
for an opportunity to
eliminate Munei,
and I don't want to
miss this chance.
But how do you plan to
find the Puppeteer, Major?
We still don't have
the foggiest idea
who this character is.
I'm gonna keep my ears open.
My ghost will whisper.
Whoa!
Gosh, this is
kind of awkward, huh?
Left, left, right,
left, right, left, right...
Hi, everybody.
It's been a long time,
hasn't it?
All right, here we go.
[alarm blaring]
[Major]
Let's do it.
There's nothing like
the thrill you get
from zipping along
in a physical body,
is there?
Really? I wouldn't know.
I'm not used to my joints yet.
Their response is strange
for a seemingly basic attack.
Go to alert status
to be safe.
Yes, sir.
A fellow pro, huh?
Uh-oh.
I guess we have
each other's attention now.
Hacking from
the public prosecutor's
office again, hmm?
They're wasting their time.
I'm going to
inspect the facility.
Pazu and Borma,
secure the evac route.
Roger.
Who are you?
I could tell you.
Of course, I'd have
to kill you, then.
[alarm blaring]
I've lost communications?
Here come
the security cyborgs!
Major, you go on ahead.
The one that got inside
is as good as dead.
Go after the think tanks.
Got it.
These guys open fire
without warning.
This must be a key
government facility, all right.
He's following us.
That's what we want.
No thermal signatures.
Cloak of invisibility, hmm?
Which means--
Your intel
is way out of date.
Type 3302 isn't called
a cloak of invisibility.
Son of a bitch.
Shit!
You little--
Get off!
Mow 'em down.
Roger!
You back me up.
In a couple of minutes,
I'll gain control of the system.
I got it.
Isn't this the way
we've always done it?
[gunfire]
[Major]
Togusa, what's your
current position?
Major, I'm making my approach
up the face of the building.
Good. I want you
to make your way to the roof
and rendezvous with the chief.
I found out
where the children are.
Let's go!
[Togusa]
Assemblyman Munei,
we're Public Security
Section 9.
We've already
seen for ourselves
what you're up to.
Judging from
what we see here,
a full scale compulsory
investigation would seem
unavoidable, wouldn't it?
Really?
Though it doesn't
show up on the books
it's the government's
most vital agency.
You self-righteous
Public Security piss ants
have no business in here!
Begging your pardon,
Assemblyman,
but from what I observe here,
this exactly fits the criteria
for the type of situation
in which our organization
needs to intervene.
For a public servant,
you don't seem to
have the vaguest clue
as to the gravity
of the threat that
this country is facing.
If nothing is done,
our country's prosperity
will be supplanted
by other races one day
in the near future.
So to prevent that,
we're expending tax dollars
on these children
who have no families,
giving them educations
and entrusting
our future to them.
Just what exactly
do you find wrong with that?
Those taxes
are from the money
you've exploited
out of the elderly
and the refugees that you
indenture to this facility.
That couldn't
have been avoided, either.
Stop and think about it.
What have these people
ever done for the good
of the country, hmm?
They don't have
families or children.
They don't contribute
as tax payers.
After living
only for themselves,
they demand, "I'm old.
Take care of me."
Their selfishness
is appalling.
If I could, I'd impose
a new tax on them
to restore the revenue we lose
because they're too old
or can't work.
You're splitting hairs.
Besides, I'd like to know
what you politicians
have been doing about it
all this time.
Who takes responsibility
for you people
putting self-preservation and
vanity ahead of your duties,
and burying pressing issues
at the bottom of the pile?
I'm proud that
I have accepted
responsibility for it.
Are you proud of violating
cyber brain ethics laws
and human rights, as well?
They were steps that needed
to be taken, in my opinion.
You refuse to budge.
[elevator dings]
[Togusa]
Major, I ran a check on
the number of kids here.
It's nowhere near 20,000.
It's more like 3,000, tops.
I see.
Switch your com channel
to autistic mode.
Roger.
You, Assemblyman,
were you aware
that a system to
automatically steal children
was designed and built
into this center?
The children that are here
are not orphans.
The vast majority of them
are abductees.
Are investigation into
their disappearance
has led us here.
You yourself are
a material witness
in the case, Munei.
I'll admit, I've overseen
this project from
the very beginning,
but I know nothing about
a bug in the system.
In that case,
we'll have to interrogate
the ones who came up
with the systems.
[Crowd chattering]
It was me.
I was the one who devised
the core concepts
the the Solid State System
is founded on.
He's got a gun!
What's he doing?
[gasping, shouting]
Togusa, take everyone
into custody.
Roger.
Batou, I'm gonna
dive this guy's cyber brain
before his memories
pull a whiteout.
Back me up.
I hope I'm in time.
Batou, I'm connected.
Gotcha. I'm boosting
your signal right now.
I see his memory field,
but the output's dropping.
It's too low.
Batou, do you think
you can boost his output?
We'll try going through
a touch coma.
You, get yourself
over here.
There's no time.
Puppeteer, can you see me?
Puppeteer.
That's the name of
the hub cyber brain
that managed the noble rot
senior citizens' Rhizome.
Yes.
Entering right visual center.
Sicaud's have ceased.
No eye movement.
Hmm? What happened?
Batou, I'm patching
the Puppeteer into
my speech center.
Don't be stupid.
Come up then dive again!
[Man]
I owe you a debt of gratitude.
You see, Munei was
the Solid State's
greatest bottleneck.
I've tried to purge him
time and time again,
but he's an old fashioned type
who hates the thought
of cyberization.
Who the hell are you?
Why were those children taken?
What are you using them for?
Setting aside the matter
of my identity for a moment,
perhaps my motives
were the same as Munei's.
This country has
reached the point
where someone has to
step in and take action.
There's the problem
of 6 million plus
noble rot senior citizens
increasing unemployment
and the proportionally
decreasing worker population
that continues unabated.
Then there's the declining
birthrate, as well.
So many problems to address.
And here's a fact.
Even though there's such
a furor over the birthrate,
nearly 50,000 children in
this country under the age of 6
needlessly lose
their lives every year.
Approximately 30% of those
deaths can be attributed
to domestic abuse...
Well, can you do it?
I'll try.
Child guidance centers,
the police, and other
relevant authorities
were aware of the situation,
but they were unable
to prevent the deaths.
This country's systems
have already collapsed,
and the potential
of the individual
is declining considerably.
Major, now listen to me.
If you stay in there
much longer,
you're gonna whiteout along
with him when he dies.
That's when I came upon
the idea of recycling ghosts
that were being
damaged unnecessarily.
I found at risk children through
the abuse surveillance net
and then laundered
their family registers.
I believed that it would
give them a new chance at life.
So that's the core concept
of the Solid State System.
Correct. But to make it work,
it was essential
to have the assistance
of the noble rot
senior citizens.
they hunger for
a reason to exist.
Although they aren't able
to pass down their DNA,
their posterity
would exist on paper.
They would then have someone
to whom they could
bequeath their belongings.
That way, they could
continue to take part
in this economic action
instead of forfeiting
their personal property
to the state
upon their deaths.
They happily gave my plan
their approval.
You realize that
what you're doing
is a crime, don't you?
Yes, but if those ends
had absolute priority,
they would be
the only possible means.
My primary task was to
save these children
who were in danger
as soon as I could.
For that reason alone,
I have no regrets
about what I've done,
even though
it's cost me my life.
On the contrary,
it means that my life as
a bureaucrat had meaning.
All that remained
was to reinforce
the Solid State System
and make it into
a self-perpetuating mechanism.
Maybe, but the purging
one by one of those
who had meddled
with your system drew
attention to your plan,
and the scheme was uncovered.
Considering how they
must've felt when they knew
that the end was near,
their reactions
are understandable.
Now, Karam, I can see.
But Munei, why him?
Because Munei held
the children prisoner here.
If those young ones
end up becoming
brainwashed elite for him,
giving them new leases
on life was for nothing.
Children need an education,
but if they aren't
released out into the world,
they won't develop
a strong will of their own.
That was the point of contention
between Munei and I,
and it was the main reason
why I had to eliminate him.
But this time, you people
had to go and show up.
Nevertheless, my plan
has progressed smoothly
to its next phase.
Huh?
I've never been able
to hack your cyber brain,
but now I've succeeded
in getting you to link me
directly into it.
Major!
[electronic interference]
You killed yourself just to
lure me into linking with you?
You're a formidable opponent,
but if I can momentarily
trap you in a thought maze,
I'll be able to eliminate
Section 9 all at once.
I'm surprised.
Your thinking is so
arrogant and self-righteous,
yet you have so much drive.
Being a bureaucrat
is a waste of your talent.
Plus, you know all about me.
Who the hell are you?
You still haven't
pieced it together?
Come now, Motoko Kusanagi,
Surely there can't be
an overabundance of people
dwelling within your memory,
burning with
this overwhelming,
egotistical, rightfulness.
We've synchronized
with countless consciousnesses
over the years,
so it shouldn't come
as a big surprise
that your deep,
collective subconscious
came to life.
And with it,
the Solid State is complete.
It's time for us to go forth.
Let's become
a vanishing mediator
and go take an active hand
in the next society.
[gasps]
I can't see anything.
Somebody give me
a status report.
Finally awake?
Batou, are you there?
What's happening?
Where am I?
So, did they make a decision
about what to do
with the children?
Hmm. It appears
that they're going to be
returned to
their real parents
for the time being.
Even though their memories
were overwritten
and they have
no knowledge of any abuse.
I wonder if that's really
what's best for the kids.
Perhaps the fact that
no one can answer
such a critical question
after all this
underscores the limitations
of our system.
What'll happen to those kids
who found foster parents
and managed to get out
before their brainwashing
education began?
For me, I'd say we'll have to
wait a while for the verdicts.
I expect there to be some
rather complicated trials
as they go through them
on a case by case basis.
Then, Chief,
when a situation
like this arises,
what can we hope for?
I can only
tell you one thing.
We need to persevere
and work within the rules
by which we're governed.
That's the best
we can do to make a stand
against the unjust for now.
I only wish that when
those kids are grown,
when they've matured and
reached their full potentials,
they'll be able to find
the answers that we couldn't.
That's my hope.
You know, if you just
sit down and think about it,
the name Solid State System
is actually quite ironic.
The guy's metaphor
for cyber brains of
old people as transistors.
Huh. Sure sounds like something
a stuffed shirt bureaucrat
would come up with, doesn't it?
I gotta admit,
I was a little freaked out
to learn who
the Puppeteer really was.
What are you talking about?
We discovered a few
interesting bits of information
after you lost consciousness
when he died.
That pencil pusher,
he actually croaked
two years ago.
Name: Tataaki Koshiki. Age 33.
Born into a respectable family
of civil servants.
Fast track to elite status
since childhood.
College, then the Ministry
of Management and Coordination.
But he quickly grew frustrated
and stopped going to work
possibly because he had
no sense of purpose
as a civil servant.
Due to his cyber brain skills,
he was allowed
to work from home
through a remote
prosthetic body.
But he was
apparently indifferent
to performing his duties.
Then, two years ago,
Munei noticed the guy's talents.
Those abilities were skills
he needed on his project
to manipulate both the welfare
and management ministries.
Munei brought him on board,
and Koshiki
independently designed
and implemented
his abduction system.
But the trouble was Koshiki
wasn't the type who stood out.
He wasn't noticeable.
In spite of the huge job
he was working on,
not one damn person
happened to realize
that the poor slob had
gotten sick and died at home.
Thanks to that,
the true identity
of the Puppeteer
is gonna remain
a mystery forever.
So now we know the truth
about Koshiki's death.
Does it then mean
that someone else
was operating his remote body
to cause all of this?
It's possible.
As a matter of fact,
of any theory,
that's probably
the most likely.
Even with those old folks
that formed a gestalt
with the guy.
Their collective
unconsciousness
was the force
behind their actions,
and caused them
to do what they did.
I hate to say it,
but there's no way
to find out for sure now.
Oh.
With one exception.
The conversation
between you and Koshiki
that's recorded in
the Tachikoma's memory.
Is it still stored in there?
It should be,
but when Koshiki died,
they claimed that
all his memories
underwent a whiteout
and were supposedly
lost along with him.
Batou, did you listen in
on that conversation?
Well, sort of.
At this point, though,
it doesn't really
matter now, does it?
They neglected old timers,
those kids who were
being abused,
all that stuff
is on its way toward
being resolved at last.
Even if we didn't
find the true identity
of the Puppeteer,
this case is still
more or less closed.
Written off as a scandal
involving a few
bad apple politicians?
It's the strangest thing, Batou.
Hmm?
What have I been
feeling so jaded and
disillusioned about?
What do you think
I was searching for
as I was wandering
around the net?
A friend? Truth?
Or a certain special
someone, maybe?
Perhaps I just wanted
to blame this organization
or even the system for my
own sense of helplessness.
Heh. What's gotten into you?
You're turning all
meek and modest on me?
Did you get whatever it was
out of your system?
Okay, so what are
you gonna do now?
Plan on keeping up
that picking the
investigations you conduct
based on your gut feelings
about 'em routine of yours?
Maybe I'm finished
with that, too.
When I'm operating
under restrictions,
I definitely feel
constrained by them,
but without those restraints,
it doesn't seem
like my actions are
accomplishing anything.
I guess I'm right back
to where I started from.
What's that supposed to mean?
Is that your way of saying
your coming back to Section 9?
What about Togusa?
Would I get in the way
of his development?
If that prevents him
from growing,
then he wasn't going to
go any further anyway.
I wouldn't sweat it
if I were you.
Perhaps you're right.
Batou, the net truly is
vast and infinite.
Who knows?
Maybe a new society
we've never even dreamed of
is already being born.
♪♪ [Woman singing
in Japanese]
♪ It's a real illusion
♪ Oh, yeah,
oh, yeah ♪
♪♪ [singing in Japanese
continues]
♪ It's a real illusion
♪ Not sure why
♪♪ [singing in Japanese
continues]
Closed-Captioned By
J.R. Media Services, Inc.
Burbank, CA